
    Recently, I came across an evolving technology. It's application plays a crutial role in day-to-day life. Whether it’s cars, robots or agriculture, various autonomous things use it to perform tasks traditionally done by humans. It includes self-driving cars, Alexa/Siri like digital assistants frenzy, real time face recognition at airports, human genome projects, Amazon/Netflix algorithms, AI composers/artists, hand writing recognition, Email marketing algorithms .This is Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning and Deep Learning. In order to understand properly, let's break down them into simple terms.

     Earlier computers use to perform task according to the set of code given to them. It was the programmer who interpret and analyse the data. But the introduction of Machine Learning has created an impactful change in our daily life. So the science and engineering of making intelligent machines is nothing but Artificial Intelligence . In simple terms, now machines will be capable of analysing data and come with an output just like humans do.  

      People often use Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning and Deep Learning interchangeably.Lets try to understand them properly.

Artificial Intelligence (AI) - the broad discipline of creating intelligent machines
Machine Learning (ML)     - refers to systems that can learn from experience
Deep Learning (DL)          - refers to systems that learn from experience on large data sets.

        Machine learning is an application of artificial intelligence (AI) that provides systems the ability to automatically learn and improve from experience without being explicitly programmed. Machine learning focuses on the development of computer programs that can access data and use it learn for themselves.

        The process of learning begins with observations or data, such as examples, direct experience, or instruction, in order to look for patterns in data and make better decisions in the future based on the examples that we provide. This is relatable to a child. He uses same algorithm. Suppose first we introduce an apple to a child. He will observe its features and create a pattern so that next time when he see a fruit he will compare it to the image of apple and conclude whether it is an apple or not.  

       In Machine Learning there are different models that generally fall into 3 different categories:

1. Supervised machine learning algorithms:
       It can apply what has been learned in the past to new data using labeled examples to predict future events. Starting from the analysis of a known training dataset, the learning algorithm produces an inferred function to make predictions about the output values. The system is able to provide targets for any new input after sufficient training.
   
2. Unsupervised machine learning algorithms:
     They are used when the information used to train is neither classified nor labeled. Unsupervised learning studies how systems can infer a function to describe a hidden structure from unlabeled data. The system doesn’t figure out the right output, but it explores the data and can draw inferences from datasets to describe hidden structures from unlabeled data.

3. Reinforcement machine learning algorithms:
    It is a learning method that interacts with its environment by producing actions and discovers errors or rewards. Trial and error search and delayed reward are the most relevant characteristics of reinforcement learning. This method allows machines and software agents to automatically determine the ideal behavior within a specific context in order to maximize its performance. Simple reward feedback is required for the agent to learn which action is best; this is known as the reinforcement signal.      
   
  Hence, Machine learning  is part of artificial intelligence that provide knowledge to computers through data, observations and interacting with the world.

                 